Team charter / Contrato de equipo
Last updated / Última actualización: 2022-09-24
Group name / Nombre del Equipo:


Busa’s Enthusiasts
Team Members & Roles / Integrantes del equipo y roles


* Victoria Herrera Arvay (she/her/ella), US: technical leader, translator / líder técnica, traductora. 
Manages the team's GitHub repository / Estará a cargo del repositorio de GitHub del equipo. 
Translation duties spa-eng -or viceversa-, makes sure all content is bilingual / Tareas de traducción español-inglés, o viceversa, verificación de que todo el contenido sea bilingüe.


* Emiliano Orgueira (he/him/él), ARG: submitter, proofreader / encargado de envíos, corrector. 
Submits group assignments to ELMS / Estará a cargo de enviar las tareas grupales a ELMS. 
Spell and grammar check on all content-related uploads / Corrección ortotipográfica de todo el material entregado.
Goals / Objetivos


With this project, we attend to create a multilingual digital edition of a colonial-era text while learning about DH approaches to literary studies, digital publishing, history, and postcolonial studies; at the same time, we expect to learn from the historical context of the source to be digitized. Regarding technical goals, we are looking to learn to use GitHub and VScode for future projects as well as be able to develop a site with certain user-friendly information architecture. Finally, we are looking forward to feeling comfortable using standardization languages such as TEI or HTML.


Core Values / Fundamentos


To carry out this project, collaboration is essential, which is at the same time one of the mainstays in digital humanities projects. Collaboration represents a challenge that can only be accomplished through fluid communication. Communication and dialogue are indispensable to achieve our objectives.Through dialogue we will be able to find the middle ground between our personal goals and our goals as a team.
Having a good predisposition for work will also be essential to be able to carry out this project. At the same time, it is important to recognize the work of our colleagues and to be open to criticism, which means not adopting rigid positions in order to overcome technical conflicts. Finally, respectful and inclusive treatment is a non-negotiable value as a team.




Team management / Gestión del equipo
We will communicate mainly through Slack, keeping in touch asynchronously, as a way to keep it efficient in the long run, and to include our communications organically in our schedules. The goal is to reach a collaboration that is sustainable enough through the duration of the course, by setting up the groundwork of our weekly tasks after every Wednesday meeting.
At the same time, as the challenge is not to resent contact and avoid last minute work, we will keep all notifications on to make sure we can solve any doubt or issue that might arise from our individual work in a timely manner. In this regard, we agree to answer any question on the same day it has been posted, or at least in the next 24 hours. 
We will establish a set of priorities in all our communications, so we can distinguish urgent matters from the ones that can wait. In order to comply with this, we will share our e-mails and be available on WhatsApp as alternative ways of reaching out. 
Overall, we will focus on always being aware of what the other party is doing so we can foresee any issues that might happen, and by doing so, we will be able to help each other in case we need it, knowing we rely on our shared tasks for all our submissions. 


Ethos /Ethos


“Be brave, make mistakes”
“Be kind, practice active listening”
“Be smart, deliver on time”




“Sé valiente, equivocate”. 
“Sé amable, escuchá con atención”. 
“Sé inteligente, entregá a tiempo”.